Paige Walters 
October 20, 2020 
JavaScript 
Instructor: Willie 

Questions to Answer: 
2.  Play the game for a few minutes, get to know it, change the difficulty. 
    a.  How would you expand the game? What options or settings could you add? 

        I would expand upon the difficulty of the hard version by substituing colors less similar to the answer to make the process of deduction more challenging to the user. Visually I would expand upon the game with a load feature after a player makes a correct selection that looks like a can of paint being spun to mix the colors @ Home Depot and splashes the right answer onto the screen. I would add options to save color codes for later so if a user wants to remember the example foe font or background colors on a project in the future. 

3.  Using this documentation https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction to guide you: 

    a.  What is the DOM? 
    
        The acronym DOM means Document Object Model; it is a standard of how information is delivered by representing the data like a tree for the server to understand and relate the website to the user.  

    b.  When is the DOM different than HTML?

        The DOM is found using DevTools in a browser; the HTML is found with Inspector but both show the same code for the same webpage. If you were to manipulate the site using the DOM it would not be seen in the original HTML document. 

    c.  What is the state of the DOM when you first load the page?

        When you first load the game page the DOM's readyState is complete; the console displays this: 
            document.readyState
            "complete"

        And you see a fully loaded site on the screen presenting the game in hard difficulty with 6 square color options and an RGB number sequence to guess the answer. 

    d.  What is the state of the DOM if you turn off JavaScript and refresh the page?    

        Using Command+Shift+P to open the command menu, Javascript is disabled for debugging; after refreshing the page, the console results as complete for the document's readyState but displays the same purple color across all 6 squares and is missing any RGB sequence. The ability to interact and click squares of the game is no longer possible. 

4.  Now let's explore the code. Use the inspector to investigate the HTML, CSS and Javascript. 

    a.  Which parts of UI are being generated by the HTML file? The CSS? The JavaScript? 

        The divisions of the heading, bar with New Colors and Easy/Hard difficulty level buttons, along with the Score text and Squares of multiple-choice color options all come from the HTML using responsive Bootstrap divs ("<div class="container">") for example.The CSS handles the design features like margins, padding, and border-radius of the multiple-choice squares. 
        The Javascript decides the varying (initial) color options within the multi-choice squares. JS changes the color of all six squares to the correct answer when selected. And the Javascript generates new CSS color options in the squares when the New Color button is clicked. Javascript also changes the display for difficulty of the puzzle when the Easy or Hard button is clicked. 

    b.  What happens inside the CSS file when you click on various elements in the page? 

         Nothing really happens within the CSS file as you click around. 

        i.  What elements does the CSS file change? 

            CSS file changes the square color through the in-line style elements. If you select the correct answer, the in-line style element changes the background color of every square to the correct answer's RBG value. If you select the incorrect answer, only the square selected changes to RBG value of (35, 35, 35) so the sqaure cannot be seen against the webpage's background (35, 35, 35) color. 

    c.  What happens inside the HTML file when you click on various elements in the page?  

        The div that contain the square color clicked flashes with a purple highlight over the in-line style added if the answer is wrong and changes the color to the same as the webpages background to make the square disappear from view and eliminate wrong options as they are chosen; if the selection is correct every other div except the correct one flashes with purple highlight over the in-line style and changes the background value to the correct answer's value. The h1 in-line style tag also changes the background to the correct color.

    d.  Use breakpoints in the JavaScript to walk through what happens when you click on various elements on the page. 

        i.  What happens when you click on a color block?

            The game continues when I chose breakpoints at line 45 and 52; at line 61 the game could not start a new game after successfuly finishing a round. 

        ii.  What happens when you click on the winning color block? 

            All 6 squares are on the screen with the same background color as the correct RGB selection. 

        iii.  What happens when you click "Play again"? 

              The game reloads a new RGB value to guess and 6 new colored multiple choice squares to choose from; at line 62 adding a break the game could not reload.    

        iv.  What HTML and CSS elements can JavaScript change? 

            Javascript can change the colors in CSS. 

        v.  How does score keeping work? 

            localStorage to save the score data 

        vi.  Why does it persist through closing the page? 

             Because the score is localStorage it keeps the score data saved in the browser even after the page is closed. 

        vii.  Using this documentation: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/sessionStorage change the JavaScript file to use session storage instead of local storage. 

        viii.  What's different about the way the score is kept now? 

            Score says 0 now when opening in live server from the index.html file after changing localStorage to sessionStorage in the app.js file the 4 times it was present.  

        ix.  When you win what happens when the title changes? 

            "RGB" changes to the value's closests color name with -ish added to the end. 

        x.  What does Asynchronous mean in the context of JavaScript? 

            Asynchronous means the function does not require being processed in a top-down fashion; actions can happen at the same time without being dependent on previous requests. 

        xi.  What is the fetch function inside of updateColorName? 

            Fetch is a method that provides an easy way to get resources asynchronously across the network. 

        xii.  What does it do? 

            Retrieves new RGB color values from a library of colors to reload a new set of multiple choice colored squares. 

        xiii.  What's an alternative to using fetch? 

            XMLHttpRequest 

        xiv.  Why use one over the other? 

            After two days of reading I still have no idea, wish I could figure it out but if I take any longer on this assignment I will throw my Macbook through the window and I still need to comment through code that makes zero sense. 

5.  Add comments to the JavaScript code explaining what you think each function does. (SEE app.js for comments)

6.  As you went through this process which of the 3E's did you draw from most? How?

    a.  Curiosity, Deal with Uncertainty, Observation Skills

        I noticed myself working within the realm of dealing with uncertainity for this entire assignment; I know to this point in my education I thrive in kind learning environments that establish baselines and my ability to master those baselines has built my success in those areas. I have absolutely no prior experience of coding and my exposure to technology behind-the-scenes has been limited; blind starts to new topics like day 1 with Javascript felt like the exact opposite of a kind learning environment because the lack of comparison information and outcome feedback when working solo. The one pattern I can find by myself is the consistent scale of struggle I am experiencing on every assignment. This constant uncertainty because of feeling like I have no knowledge baseline to build upon is motivating me to shift my focus from mastering the desired baseline of knowledge and instead mastering the concept of wicked learning. ('Kind' and 'Wicked' learning environments coming from the book Range). I have never attempted learning a new skill of this magnitude outside of a very rigid classroom setting. This assignment has shown me how inept I am at investigating information for myself because of the difference in pre-determined detailed lectures I am used to verse the open SkilledKC Q&A model deciding what information is covered during classtime; after the two days of time working on this and still not accumulating concepts that I would normally use to guide my studies I am re-evaluating how to change my tactics to better retain the information for the long-term. After my experience working in labratories and healthcare, my innate drive for curiosity feels exstinguished because of being trained to remove myself from the process; I want to reinvigorate my personal passion for knowledge and allow myself the space for geniune, valuable curiosity instead of feeling pressure for producing exact answers. My hope is that the bit of grace on myself mixed with drastically changing my study style will allow me to better digest the information and be able to find success in the software development industry. This assignment felt like a wakeup call for the personal accountability required for my learning to improve or else I will not be able to finish the program using my current model, I will fall behind quickly. 

7.  Push your changes to Git. (URL Here:  )